This is an interview with Mike Arisco by Stephen
Huggs in Houston, Texas, 11-5-88. I need
your name, place of birth, location and date for
Vietnam. Okay, my name is Mike Arisco. I was, at
that time, I was living in Port Opera, graduating
from Thomas Jefferson in Port Opera. I was in the
United States Marine Corps in 1966 through 69, but
entered Vietnam in 67 through 69. All right. And
what service organization were you in? Marine
Corps. In the Marine Corps. And what was your job
specialty? I was 2533 was what my specialty was,
which is communications. But a lot of times you get
stuck in some of the weirdest jobs while you were
there. I was with H&S, 3rd Engineers is what I was
working with. Originally, I started out as
sweeping highways in the morning for landmines.
That's what my original job was, beginning at
communications. Later took over communications
of the area and then started working. We did toward
the end of my first tour, then through my next tour
was patrol, working with H&S. Were you
communication on patrol? No. No, I wasn't. Okay.
When I say no, I wasn't communications. When I
became a sergeant, I was still part of
communications, but I enjoyed going out more than
sitting in the Cointree area. I just didn't like
sitting there. I liked taking off. Now, when you
say communications, just about everybody in our
squad could work the communications. We all took
turns with it, if that's what you mean. We had a
radio operator. Okay. Okay. All right. And why in
particular did you choose to fight and be not?
Because I was scared to go to jail. At that time, no
one wants to go to jail. No one wants to die. But I
felt I was scared, as everybody else was. But I was
afraid that if I didn't go, I'm going to jail. And I
was more afraid of that. I was more afraid of what
would happen to me if I didn't go than if I did go.
Hmm. And why did you choose the Marine Corps?
Because I'm stupid. No, I picked the Marine Corps
because of my personality and the way that I am. I am
a person who likes to do spontaneous things. When I
entered the Marine Corps, I was fooling, of
course, with the lower Neanderthal people. Some
of the dumbest things they made us do. But I could
get away with more. if i if i did not show up for three
days to an area let's say when i when i was in uh when i
was in the uh san diego let's say when i was
stationed there for a while which was near
oceanside or wherever i was stationed i'd go meet
some girl be gone for three days and just say i lost
my way back or i had car trouble and they'll believe
me it was it was unique how ignorance confess your
own ignorance and but again i also looked at it when
i was in the marine corps we had a tradition we
didn't leave anybody behind if someone was shot we
didn't leave them we took them back body and all
sometimes so uh again that's dumb reasons i guess
but that was my reason all right did you receive any
uh instruction about the country or the nature of
the conflict no that was when i received the
information Okay, let's start over here. When I
entered the Marine Corps, I spent boot camp, and
then I went to weapons training. We went to Camp
Pendleton for about six weeks to learn how to use
certain weapons. There we had maybe a few days of
talking about Vietnam because that's what
everybody was talking about, but nothing on
Vietnam. It wasn't until I really got into country
And that, I think, was our major problem. I don't
know if other units did have any indoctrination of
the country. We didn't. And I think one of our
problems, we never understood the people. And not
understanding them, we insulted them more than we
ever, by helping them, we insulted them more. One
example, when you go into a village, when kids run
up to you, you always just say, hey, here's some
candy. And you're trying to be nice to them when you
know it's a friendly village. At that point, when
we first walked into a village, we did not know that
before I even stepped into the village, I've
already insulted everyone in that village four
and five times and never even knew it because I was
never told of their customs. And I guess you could
say it's the Marine Corps' fault because we're out
there fighting a war. But again, we lost the
villagers. We never had them on our side. Of
course, they were more afraid of the enemy. than
they were of us. But like when you enter a village,
the first person you're supposed to talk to is the
oldest and the elder of the village. Where you
would stop and say hello to a little kid and you'd
give them candy, you've insulted the oldest
person in that village. You've insulted the
entire village. Also, touching the top of a
child's head is very, the top of a child's head in
our area was very, very sacred. And it was like a
magnet. They said that if you touched the top of a
child's head, it would suck the kindness out of
their body into your body. And they believed it,
and that's part of their beliefs or their customs.
So first thing you do is grab a little kid's head and
you shake the, hey, how you doing? You just, to
those people, you've just taken all the kindness
from that child, and you now own it. And you just
insulted the family.
Yeah. What is your very first memory of the country
you were on? The smell. The country stunk. I landed
in Da Nang, is where I first landed, and I was there
in Da Nang about three days, but the first thing
that I noticed, no, I wasn't there about three
days, about two days I was in Da Nang. Getting off
the plane, when I was on those little steps coming
off, the smell, the stench, it smelled like the
whole country was a cesspool. At that time, I did
not know why, but then I thought everybody in the
country, again, that was my ignorance of not
knowing the people. Vietnam stunk because It's
rice paddies. It's 90%, at least the areas I was in,
it's mostly rice paddy and jungle. They use
natural ingredients to fertilize their rice
paddies. So everything stunk. The people had
different ways of life. Again, the smell was the
worst, I think. That's the first thing I remember.
I still can smell the, at times, the stench of the
country. Of course, they could have been burning
Yeah, sure. I thought they could have been burning
the shitters at that time, you know, the
outhouses. And if they were, you know, the smell
was going across the tarmac, which was our denang
at that time. Did you at any time feel that South
Vietnam was too corrupt or corrupt? South Vietnam
could never win the war. We kind of knew that. What
we wanted was to spend our tour and get out.
The few men that I met, we had an interpreter, and
over a year we became half-decent friends. He
didn't trust me, and of course a lot of times I
didn't quite trust him, but we became as best
friends as we could.
He had a brother that he paid to get out of war.
There's a lot of people that could pay their way out
of the army. Corruption was real, real big. So we
knew that. And we just knew there's no way that
that... There had to be a revolution to overthrow
the corruption. So it was just no chance. And did
you ever feel that the Arvin were ineffective
or... Again, a problem... We had an Arvin. Again,
one of our interpreters was an Arvin. And...
He knew when we went out on patrol that, again, they
had a different belief. Now, again, this is the
area I was in. Before we get started, I've got to let
you know, over the years I've found that talking to
other people about Vietnam, what happens to me in
Vietnam, you can talk to 50 other guys, and all 50
have different interpretations, different
ideas of Vietnam, even different terrain,
everything, which is so different in areas. So I'm
giving you what I saw and what I interpreted from
this. The Arvin that I had in my unit,
the first time we fought, you know, we had a small
engagement. He wanted to run. I mean, he wanted to
run the first thing, and he just knew the moment he
got up, I would shoot him in the back. He knew that
from the start, that any one of my units was going to
kill him the moment that he got up to run. I thought
he was a coward. I thought he was an absolute
coward. And until one day, he's changed me a lot, my
interpretation of Vietnam because he showed me
their point of view, which was so different from
mine. One day we were sitting there talking and I
said, you know, I can't believe I'm in your country
fighting for you and you're nothing but a bunch of
cowards always running. And he got a little upset
with me and he said, you are a a visitor in our
country you're here to help us but you're so wrong
and he he was very angry he told me he said you you
marines up here uh brag about having the ten to one
kill ratio in other words uh they'd say that our
units up in the north had ten to one ratio would kill
ten of the enemy before they finally kill us which
is a very high high ratio and he said that means And I
call it the John Wayne theory. The John Wayne
theory is you fight to the end and you die a hero. He
turned and he said, you know, that idea is totally
stupid. He said, why do you do it that way? All you
want to do is you shoot one today and you run. And you
shoot one tomorrow and you run. And in one year, you
have just killed 365 people. and I'm still alive,
what is the ratio then? 365 to one compared to your
10 to one. So they had a different idea about what is
war. War to us was fight to the John Wayne, the
Alamo, fight to the end. where they had an idea that
you hit and you run. If you get into a situation
where you think you're going to be surrounded, get
out. But you're still allowed to fight another
day, where we will sit there and keep fighting. So
it's different ideas. I think their type of
fighting could not, we could not work together. If
that's what you mean by the arm, they could not
fight with us because we had different theories.
Guerrilla fighting or in the jungle fighting,
perfect. But we did not fight that way, and that was
the difference. Did you ever actually conduct a
small unit action or any action? Oh, yeah, yeah,
yeah. As I showed you earlier, going into Khe Sanh
was the biggest joke. We thought we knew we died at
Khe Sanh. It was a... And we walked right into it. A
story out of Khe Sanh.
1-9, there was nothing left of 1-9 or 2. 2-9 was just
chopped up. There were areas they talked about,
and I never saw this area, but they were talking
about at night when you set up your concertina
wire, you put cans of rocks in it, or you put a piece
of metal into the concertina wire to where someone
touches a rattle. You make noises, and you tell
what the enemy is there touching the wire. Some of
those nights, it got so dark. You couldn't see, and
you kept asking for flares, but after a while, the
enemy then sees you, so you can't put too many
flares out. They said one of the sides during this
time period, at night it got so dark they couldn't
see. The next morning when the sun came up, they
noticed that all the hands were taken off and
little white crosses were placed in that
position, saying that the enemy got into the
concertina wire, made no noise, showed that they
could have crossed into the wire any time they
wanted to. Personally, I was too scared to believe
something like that. I'm saying, God, if they
could do that, then why are we still here? I mean,
they were really pounding the hell out of us. It
felt like you couldn't sleep at night. You tried
the best. You would sleep for maybe, it felt like 30
seconds because a shell was coming in almost that
often. It was just constant pounding. But I guess
we're, as Marines, we're just too stupid to give
up. But one of the guys in a unit got his flight back.
It's the day that you have to report to the name,
you're going home. And he's in the middle of, right
in the middle of Khe Sanh, surrounded by, we
thought, the entire Asian population was around
us, because hell, we were totally surrounded. We
started laughing at him, that you ain't going
home, mother, you're going to die right here. We
laughed at him for about a day. It must have been the
second day this idiot stood up, took his helmet
off, We have what they call little Volkswagens. We
call them a mule. They're like little
Volkswagens. They took all the parts of them and
made a flat bed across them. You had one place to
steer it and carry things on it. He stood up on a mule
and he just hollered out to the wire, people, I
quit. I'm putting my rifle down. I'm putting my
helmet down. I am not fighting anymore. I am going
home. Okay? He gets in the mule. And he takes off, he
puts some mail on the back behind this mule. He
takes off to Dong Ha, which is right next to Quang
Tri, going home. When he left, he snuck out. He just
didn't just, you know, everybody watched him and
waved at him, but he snuck out. We knew when he got
out, you know, we'd never see that mother again.
He's going to be just dead meat somewhere. About
four hours later, he calls from Quang Tri. Nobody
stopped him. He just saw no one the entire
distance. Again, the Vietnamese believe that
people that are crazy are sacred. Anybody crazy
enough to go through three divisions of North
Vietnamese regulars Got to be crazy. And he made it
all the way back. You know, nuts like, things like
that always happen. You know, you wonder. You
know, everybody then started saying, people, I
give up. You know, but it didn't work after they
kept pounding the hell out of it. All right. What
was the typical action you would describe that you
were involved in as a, in those later periods as a
patrol? Okay. I classify Vietnam as two wars. You
have a good war and then you have a bad war. About, I
would say, 66 through 69, it was a good war. Maybe
even kind of 70, if you want to. It was to where the
American public was not that much against it.
People over there were still fighting the war.
I was there during that time period. The bad war is
the time period where People coming over were the
protesters, the people that did not, of course,
nobody wanted to be there, but these were the ones
that were picketing and fighting against the war.
So their patrols, I heard about, you know, smoking
grass, going on patrol, most of the guys would die.
I would be really afraid to have been over there
during the 70s because of how... Sloppy, real
sloppy, these people were. I always heard, you
know, these guys that talk afterwards about being
heroes. You know, there's no hero in Vietnam. All
it was is a bunch of guys that try to stay alive. Some
of them did some of the weirdest things by being
heroes. But anyway, the Enormous Patrol for us was
very easygoing. We worked together very well. the
four guys that I was with some of my I call every so
often but I've not seen him since we left since I've
left Vietnam or they left also of course I didn't
ask you I didn't answer your question too well
other typical action what was it like you mean
going on patrol yeah most of the times we had a
three-day patrol four-day patrol you're really
going for us a lot of times we were just out seeing
what's out there and if you're talking about
different types we had a patrol you'd go out past
the wire for a few days just checking to see what's
or even one day you're going out just see what's out
there and coming back you had other ones where we
would have to go to vanden grift or to any place like
that where you just take off and put it all the way
there
gosh i wish i could in the jungle was uh The most
frightening of them all to me. The jungle was scary
because you couldn't see ahead of them. It was so
hot. There's no sun. The humidity just drained the
energy out of you. The heat was just terrible. But
you couldn't see. That was a big thing. You were
walking along. You had to be so quiet because you
make any noise, those people can almost walk 20
feet away from you, and you will never even see
them. You'll only hear or smell them. Same way for
our direction. Typical action. Let's see if I can
give one. We took three days, or two days of
C-rations, or three days, we were out for three
days. We used C-rations or K-rations, which
tasted like, you know, 20-year-old vomit. And we
couldn't heat it up. We had to eat it cold, which
made it even taste worse. But you were so hot and so
drained of fluid, you really didn't want to eat
anything. All you wanted to do was take down the
liquids. God, I... I wish I could help you more on
it, but that's just when we'd go out on patrols. We
were scared. Of course, there are fun times. I
mean, there's a weird time, too. Now, that's what I
like to remember, the weird times. You'll get out,
and you'll have these monkeys. We call them rock
apes. They'll throw rocks at you. You're sitting
down there on the ground, not bothering anybody.
Also, you have these things thrown at you from, we
call them rock apes. They'll throw anything they
can get their hands on. to get you out of their area.
They thought that was their area. And idiots like
us, instead of shooting them, we throw rocks back
at them. And then you have a firefight between
monkeys and marines over their little area. There
was a time where we went after a bingo tiger. I
showed you the picture, didn't I? I didn't shoot
it. Some guy shot a... We went out on patrol to kill a
bingo tiger. There was like an operation of
maybe... Four or five hundred went out on a hunt of
this rabid bingo tiger. It was told whoever got it
could keep it. It was their skin. They could take
the skin home. A Marine shot it with an M16, one shot
by total accident. The guy said he was just
shooting in the area and the tiger ran into the
bullet. But he hit him right in the head, just blew
the top of his head off. Well, they drug it back,
they hooked it up in the camp, they hooked it on a
telephone pole, and let's sit there like an honor,
like this is what we got. Found out the next day it's
rabbits. So the colonel of our company found out
that we have to burn it. What you have to do to a
rabbit animal out there is you dig a hole, you bury
it, You dig a hole first, then you cover it with
gasoline, you burn it, pour lye on it, then you bury
it, and you don't get away from that area for a
while. That's what they did. But our colonel
didn't. 101 Airborne just moved up right next to
us. We never saw stakes. We never had T-bone
stakes. They did. Their colonel said, God, I wish I
had that skin because, man, that's a beautiful
thing to take home, to lay on the ground, to say
that, you know, he'd probably go home and say he
shot it himself, you know. Who in the hell would
know? So our colonel, knowing it's rabbit, said,
I'll tell you what, the guy, the boy doesn't want
the skin at all, or the animal. He gave it to me. I'll
tell you what, if you give me one of your bins full of
steaks to feed my guys, we'll give you the skin. The
guy said, hey, great, we'll do that. So he takes the
steaks that he was going to give to his own
servicemen, the Army, which hell, they get them
all the time, gave them to us. He has, we call them
like ditzy dumpsters, or big metal containers of
refrigeration. Well, he only had one
refrigerator left with the steaks that the guys
were going to eat for the rest of the month, which is
mostly ground meat and stuff like this. So he
throws that carcass into that, their other
refrigerator, waiting until someone processes
the skin, okay? So he called over his doctors. We
already had this big, ditzy dumpster with steaks.
We had a fantastic barbecue. We just, we ate and
ate, because we had email, because we knew that as
soon as he found out that that thing is rabid, that
we, okay, to the Army. Great steaks. He had to, the
funny part, this is what I heard, I don't know if it
was true or not, but I heard that the colonel was so
embarrassed, their colonel, was so embarrassed
that he was being snookered by a Marine colonel
that he couldn't tell everybody that the thing was
rabid. He just snuck out and burned it. But he put it
in with this meat, which contaminated the meat. He
was so embarrassed by it, he didn't want to tell
anybody he did do that. So he let the guys eat the
meat, you know, that was then contaminated. But
who knows? They could have done that. That's
normal.
How would you analyze the progress of the war while
you were there? There was no progress.
When I got there, All I saw when I got there, the
progress to me was the building up of Quang Tri.
When I entered Vietnam, I was stationed with the
3rd Marine Division, and they just moved up. They
were first, I think, in Dong Ha. I wasn't there yet.
Dong Ha is a little farther north than Quang Tri.
And they were from the other side of the DMZ. They
could rocket to Dong Ha. So it's It was a little too
close to the north, so I think they wanted to build a
base a little farther south where rockets won't
hit it. Dong Ha base was still there, but they moved
down to Quang Tri. When I got there, they were just
starting to build Quang Tri up. We went from tents
to – now, this army wasn't there yet, so we were
stealing plywood and things from the Seabees or
whatever we need stuff from. So we built – within
the first year, we had wooden tents – you know, the
size of me out of wood, things like this that we got
from the Seabees or whatever we could steal from
other people. But that's the money field. I saw no
advancement except you go out on patrol one day,
you hit a village the next day, you go back, the
village is, you know, taken over again. We didn't
gain anything. I never thought we ever gained
land. I never saw it gain. I just saw us lose. Or you
go into a village, you know they're scared. You
know that you can tell that they're scared.
They... They tell you there's no one there, and you
know there is, but you know that when you leave that
village, they're going to move back in. And we
lived in that village. They'd help us if we lived in
the village, but then we would be gone, and we
didn't see Viet Cong at all. We fought straight
North Vietnamese rebels. We knew they were going
to come back and live in that village, so they were
more afraid of them than they were of us.
do you feel the policies guiding the world the war
were too vague or inconsistent with actually what
was going on oh yeah uh that made it difficult to uh
the policy we i didn't know if we had a policy in
vietnam except go over and just a lot of times i
blame west marlin i blame uh i don't know if i'd
blame johnson because i don't think johnson i
think it was allowed to that's how i really feel i
feel that the army and not the Army lied to him, I
think that the CIA came up with a lot of situations
that did not,
were not true. When Westmoreland came up and said,
we need 50,000 men and we can do this, and so he gives
them 50,000 men and says, we're a little wrong, we
need another 50,000. The escalation of war, a lot
of people blame Johnson for the escalation. I
don't, I just think that he was going along with
what he was trusting, his advisors, and I think his
advisors were all wrong with what they were doing
in the policy. You don't believe me? He was part of
the naval pump. Your teacher was part of the...
Right. He served as a gunner out on the ship. Okay.
My one time with the Navy, I've got to tell you this
one. When you call in fire support, We call in fire
support by calling our rear or having a frequency
to go to. And our frequency is mostly a 105 howitzer
or a 155 howitzer. And that's what mostly we got
sometimes. And when you call it in, they check your
coordinates to make sure they're not in a friendly
area. Then they'll ask for smoke. And they'll send
one round. And sometimes you're hit so hard, you
say, forget the smoke. Just come in with it,
because we're really being hit. And sometimes
they do. But sometimes it's like a grab bag. You're
knowing you're going to get 105s or 155s, but you
don't know what else you're going to get. We were
out. And this was about 6.30 in the evening, just
starting dust. We can see them moving around. We
were near a rice pad. what they call scrub brush.
There's a lot of this stuff around. We can see there
must have been about 30 or 40 of them out there. At
least for us it felt like 5,000, but there's only a
few. They looked like they were trying to surround
us, but we wanted to hit them, so we called in for
support. What we were hoping for was a jet or a
helicopter to come in because They're easier to
work with because they're right there on top of
you. But you get mostly 105s and 155s. So we called
in, and the guy on the radio was calling in our
coordinates. And he said he kept hollering at this
guy. And we said, what do you got? He says, I can't
tell where this guy is, but he sounds like he is
5,000 miles away. He's talking so far away from his
mic. May I have this? He was talking so far away from
the mic. We couldn't understand what he meant by
that. This guy said, just give me your
coordinates. We gave him the coordinates, and he
said, I'm going to drop smoke. I will wait, and then
tell me if you want to fire for effect. That must
have been, oh, a few minutes later. We looked up,
and in my mind I said, where's the train? Because it
sounded like a locomotive coming over. And all of a
sudden, the whole ground just shook. And he said,
fire! And the guy on the bus just thought he meant
fire for effect. And he put three shells. It was New
Jersey. He put three shells. All we were doing was
ruining it. We thought the world came to an end. I
did not know shells get that big. We got about, oh,
we must have ran, it felt like for days, but I mean,
we ran for a couple hundred yards, laid back, and we
said, God, we don't want that anymore. They should
have said, we're the New Jersey. Please be a bit
advised. You're going to get a train coming over
your head, and we're going to blow up an entire grid
coordinate for you. That was the only time, and I
think after that we got real gunshot, but I never
called anything in because we were afraid we'd get
to New Jersey again. God, I mean, that is the most
powerful shot we have ever, I've ever had. He was on
me in New Jersey. Thank you for letting me shit in my
pants.
All right. Did you see any atrocities or war
crimes? No. No, I didn't see any. Wait a minute,
wait a minute. Let's take this back a minute. Wait a
minute. If you mean by atrocities, no, I saw no
atrocities. I heard of some. For instance, that's
what I was going to try to get to. I don't know if
that's considered the same. I heard of a guy going
down in a... Picking up the enemy, having three of
them in the back of a... We never had these
beautiful trucks. We always had dump trucks or a
deuce and a half. We never had the beautiful cars or
the beautiful trucks with the covers on the back
and the beautiful seats. The Army had that. We had
nothing. When you pick up three guys or three of the
enemy that you've caught, you don't want them to
talk. I've heard of them guys that would take them
and tie their hands together, throw them off the
back of the truck. And just drag them. And then when
you have nothing left of the guys with these arms,
then you say, next. And they say, by that time, the
guys are talking. You know, find out where the
enemy is. I don't know if that's true. I never saw
it. I've always heard about stuff like that. And
you say, yay for the good guys. You let them drag
them a while. But that's it.
Do you feel your involvement in the war was the
right thing to do?
Wow. Hindsight is great sight. At the time, I
thought I was fighting for God, mom, and apple pie.
That, I really believe. I still believe today,
I've got to, or I would... Everything that I did was
actually worthless if I don't believe that I
fought for the United States and for what I really
believed in. But it gets tougher to look at it that
way. I believe the war was... was wrong. At the
time, what we wanted to do was turn the whole
country into glass, just nuke it and make it into
another Disney world for the future generations.
But I personally today look back and say I don't
think we should have been there. But at the time, I
have to believe that I was there for a cause.
Because at that time, it was a good war. It wasn't a
bad war yet. So we still believe it was a good war.
That's your question? Oh, yeah. Let's see. So
we've been reading materials that bring to light
the fact that South Vietnam was so permeated with
corruption and civil dissent that the VC or the
National Liberation Front were in such firm
control that there was basically nothing that
could have been done. Do you believe this is true,
that no amount of aid, men, troops, unified
national action from the union or anything could
have prevented? THE PRESIDENT. No, Vietnam was,
the country was wrong. I don't know if it was our
foreign policy, which I think it was. It wasn't the
military fault, since you're an ADM, I can't have
to say it that way. It really was not the military,
because they fought with the politicians and made
them fight. And that's sad. That type of war should
never happen again. And it's not the war, it's that
letting politicians fight a war. And I think
that's what happened. We went into a country that
the politicians absolutely corrupted. We
destroyed their economy. We destroyed their
self-image. We destroyed everything that one
country could destroy on another country. And we
did it for the sake of democracy. And that was not
the military that did it mostly. It was the
politicians at the time, and our own politicians,
trying to make a buck. Some of us, not politicians,
but some of our company owners of big industries
was making a lot of money off this war. They'll do
any calls. But there was no hope for Vietnam.
Vietnam never, ever had a chance. What was your
homecoming like? Bad.
By the time I got home, oh, wait, let me tell you
about home. I entered, when I left Vietnam, I
entered Da Nang. When we go home, we get flight
dates. You give up your gun, you give up most of your
stuff, you give all that up at your units, and then
you fly in by helicopter, for us by helicopter,
into Da Nang, and you wait for your flight date,
which is that day. What happened to us was a
situation. We entered, when I left home, when I was
coming home in 69, a typhoon just finished hitting
Da Nang, or Vietnam. Another one just went over
okinawa now how marines go home everything stays
through okinawa so and okinawa had a treaty that's
only a certain amount of servicemen will be on
their country at any time so they had a backlog and
they had not only they had too many people on
okinawa because of the typhoon because they had to
stop flights and they had so many waiting in denain
waiting for those people to leave Okinawa where we
could fly out. I was in Da Nang like three days
waiting for an airplane. We were getting
frustrated. We had no rifle. We were getting
shelled about every other day, which is only three
days, but we got shelled. We had no protection
except we were inside of these big cement sewer
holes that they used to make bunkers out of. We'd
run into it and we were scared to hell because we
were going home and that's the worst time to be. So
by the time I got my date to leave, I flew into
Okinawa. Now Okinawa, we had a problem too now.
We're there and they said, hey, you're going to be
here for at least a week because we're trying to
find any way to get servicemen home. Well,
eventually, what I got on was 12 of us. We just got
the first day. First day I entered Okinawa. We
found a hole in the fence. They would not give us
liberty because we're not part of that unit. We're
just staging areas going from one spot to another.
So we couldn't have liberty. So we're going to be
three days in this place. So the first day, we made
sure we found a hole in the fence. We found a... a
social house that is in Okinawa. Of course, we had
alcohol and this type of thing. The next night, I
did not want to go out. Those guys just took off the
same hole in the fence, you know, hey, another
social night. I stayed And I got a private flight
home. We found a, there was a commercial flight
going through Okinawa. And they said, they've got
five, 20 seats open. Any of you five want to go, you
know, get your stuff and meet. Boy, I mean, we dove
for that area. It landed in Los Angeles, which
meant it was not a military pickup. Now, it sounded
great to do it that way, but now I'm stuck in the
middle of Los Angeles. And I had to find the closest
base, which was El Toro, which is in California.
Then it became a joke. Some officer, it had to be an
officer, I hope the teacher wasn't an officer,
some idiot came up with a beautiful idea that
servicemen, Marines coming back from Vietnam
were animals. So they were going to spend three
days to a week bringing us back into the social life
of the United States. all we want to do is go home we
wanted to be out and one day get my uh because i was i
was out of service i was going back to go to college i
was i was uh i'm out i'm on home we'll go i want to go
home but he said nope we're going to spend a week
putting you back into society so they take us to
places like uh disneyland and we have to walk in or
we're in That was the most embarrassing. We went to
Disneyland in uniform, and we had to march into
Disneyland. We had to stand and ride and march,
which caused havoc among these guys that want to go
home. The whole idea did not work. I don't know how
long they tried to do this, but it didn't work. We
got into Pirates of the Caribbean. You put 40 guys
on a ride going into a place you don't want to be. Uh,
guys were jumping from boat to boat. They were, uh,
jumping up, changing the, uh, the hand signs. You
know, a guy had, in the parts of the Caribbean, you
got these guys moving around, you know,
animation. And they would jump off one boat, you
know, little bitty carts you're supposed to be in
in the water, jump off, change the hand where
instead of waving, it is showing the, uh, great
American bird. Uh, they stopped the ride in the
middle, made us get off, told us to get out of the
park that we were very, very, oh, man, there's a
lieutenant over us. just reamed us out, but we got
to go home to them. It was a total flop, but that's
what they tried to do. When I finally got home, I
went back to school. It wasn't fun. I went to Lamar,
which compared to your college is not much, but it
was my college to go to. I had a sociology teacher
that called me a baby killer into class. He
embarrassed me very much. He tried to as much as he
went. By this time, the war was getting bad.
When we entered, there's like 12 of us that I knew
that was in Lamar, and they would call us on the
phone saying, don't show up today to school.
There's going to be a protest, and we don't want you
to cause a problem. It didn't happen very often,
but I kept saying to myself, why are you getting mad
at me? I went to defend the United States, and
you're taking it out on me, and I didn't, you know. I
didn't shoot you. I didn't shoot at you. Why are you
getting that at me for? And that's how a lot of us, we
felt very frustrated and very angry. Of course,
the sweetheart of sweethearts today is Jane
Fonda. Anything to do with Jane Fonda, I will
absolutely, positively protest. If she came to
town or went to, had anything in Foley's or any
place that I have credit cards, I will let them know
that if they sell that item, I will burn that card. I
will not have anything to do with that company. To
me, protesting is different than going to another
person's country and saying how bad we are. That's
unforgivable.
That's what things have happened to me. Where were
you during the test? It depends. I was there for two
tests. One I was a case on. Looking back, I'm glad I
was at Khe Sanh compared to Way. I mean, it was
either probably my luck out of the top that I had to
go on the way. And Way was a woolly booker. Of
course, again, we had it tough. But you're
fighting, I mean, street by street and bunker by
bunker. Those guys really had to me had a tough
time. Of course, we were getting shelled. We knew
we died. Wade was tough. There's a lot of them that
was really bad. The next one was in 68.
And it wasn't as bad. I just remember getting
shelled a little. But it wasn't, I don't remember
that much about that pet at all except we just
prepared for it and it wasn't as big as we thought it
would be. Where were you for that one? I don't
remember. I must have been out on patrol. I must
have been in Cointree. It wasn't, it did not hit me
to remember, so it must not have been that
important, because I don't remember that much
about that. How did you change during your time in
Vietnam? I grew up. I was a little kid. Being from a
small town like Port Opera, and with one high
school, all white, All you did was, you know, the
biggest problem you had at school when I was
growing up in high school was who I was going to,
what girl I was going to take out that weekend.
Making sure dad would have enough gasoline in my
car. It was a small town, and the beach is only 25
miles away. We were at the beach in the summer, so it
was really a very easygoing life. I learned a lot. I
learned a lot about people when I was in Vietnam. I
learned that I am not right. I am just, even if I, my
ideas are not always right. But they might not be
wrong either. It's just someone else has a
different idea. I grew up a lot. Being honest, I
kind of, if of course I don't have a son, I've got a
daughter. And I've always said that if I had to do it
all over again, or not all over again, if I had a son,
I would want him, before he went into college, he
should either enter a military institution or a
military academy. I don't mean like A&M, going to
school at A&M. I'm talking about core. If he said,
OK, Dad, I want to go to a college, he'd have to enter
one with a core. He has to learn. to grow up, but I
believe the military does help. Some people
don't, but it did me, and I'm very happy that they
did that for me. It also paid for my education. It
taught me how to lie and get away with it. Did you
find while you were there that you grew more
distant to the situation or more in tune to the
actions of the day, the people, the effect of the
Americans on Vietnam culture? Did this become
more distant? No, it became more acute to me about
the people. That's why I learned.
That's when I started growing up, when I started
realizing that this guy was not a coward. He just
had a different idea of what life is. Knowing your
customs, which we never did, I blame myself for
that. But then again, everybody had a problem not
understanding their customs, which meant we
weren't right. We weren't wrong, but we weren't
always right. And that's hard to say, because
you're both.